Dominique Pozo: Hi there, what happened.
Martin Price: My bad. I like God and about 610. I'm sorry. I was like in zoom meetings all day and times of day for me.
Oh,
Martin Price: And had to go through the
Martin Price: Virtual clinic twice because the number was working. So here we are. I apologize.
Dominique Pozo: Well, you're here, it's okay.
Dominique Pozo: Good. Well, let's just dive right in. Since we only have about 25 minutes left.
Dominique Pozo: So how's it going, how has it been since we met last I know
Dominique Pozo: We've we were talking about, you know, I know that one of the themes was, you know, reaching out to women and as opposed to just figuring out how to
Martin Price: How to find myself.
Dominique Pozo: Yeah.
Dominique Pozo: How to find joy with yourself as well as connection with others. But really,
Martin Price: Yeah, I'm doing some of both
Martin Price: I'm just like, really fighting my ego, which keeps attacking me for being so stupid. In the previous relationship, you know,
Dominique Pozo: And
Martin Price: I should have known better. You know, I should have listened to my brands. I should have seen this sign or I should have seen that sign and
Martin Price: And I know
Martin Price: It's really weird. It's like
Martin Price: I, you know,
Martin Price: What my counselor told me to do is just all you can do is intervene on yourself and pray, you know, and recognize that
Martin Price: It doesn't help you to sit there and condemn yourself to
Martin Price: And
Martin Price: You know, call yourself a dunce and think of yourself as being unlovable, and
Martin Price: I don't know. And then I just like
Martin Price: Think that it's karma because of, you know, things that I've done in the past, you know, it's all coming back to me it's just
Martin Price: And it's not
Martin Price: I don't know. It just seems to happen like between three and six in the afternoon. I call it the witching hour
Oh,
Martin Price: Yeah, I miss it. Right.
Martin Price: I don't know what else to do, except for to just keep intervening, you know, until it kind of wears off and goes away. I hope
Dominique Pozo: Well here's the thing. I actually, I have a different take on on this and i i think it's all valid. It's just trying to another angle to that.
Dominique Pozo: Sometimes these voices that come in, they actually have a meaningful message. And if we don't, if I don't, I know from my own therapy and working with others. If we don't
Dominique Pozo: push them away and try to shut them up and actually listen, maybe they will start to quiet down but when they're, they're kind of pushed away they scream louder sometimes so
Dominique Pozo: Yeah, I'm
Dominique Pozo: Yeah, I'm wondering, have you ever done any empty chair work.
Martin Price: No, never heard of that one.
Dominique Pozo: Okay, great. Well, it's a gestalt technique is very effective, I think, and
Dominique Pozo: What a person does this. So what we could do is we'd have the empty chair and that would be the part of you that voice that's calling you a dunce and
Dominique Pozo: Connie, this and that. And then you take a moment to
Dominique Pozo: Set the chair up and imagine that that part of you is there and have a start to have a dialogue with it and then
Dominique Pozo: You're going to switch. If you're open to doing this and and exploring it and then you will become that voice and then talk to the chair that you were previously sitting in and actually just start talking and whatever you want to say.
Dominique Pozo: To kind of give this part of you because we all have these various parts and this sounds like a critic part but to get quiet space to just speak and hear, you know, what is it that what is, what is that part of you actually really want to say what's the message.
Dominique Pozo: You want to give it a go. Yeah.
Martin Price: I'll try.
Dominique Pozo: Okay, great. So if you can find another chair somewhere in your space.
You Michigan.
Martin Price: Okay.
Dominique Pozo: Okay, so
Dominique Pozo: Would you like to speak to this part first or do you just want to become that part right away. What would you like to do you
Martin Price: Mean the self critical part of me.
Martin Price: That's pretty easy to do.
Dominique Pozo: To become that part.
Martin Price: Yeah, the critical part
Dominique Pozo: Okay, so God. Would you be open to me interviewing the critical part
Dominique Pozo: And talking to him a little bit. Okay. So go ahead and switch chairs, because we really want to make this distinction. It helps the safe.
Dominique Pozo: Okay, okay. So go ahead and just imagine into this part, you know, tell me, tell me a little bit. What do you look like and and does he have another name or should we just call him the critic, what do we want to call them.
Martin Price: And the critic, the voice. It doesn't let me or maybe it's like the voice that
Martin Price: Says that you never learn. I'll never learn.
Dominique Pozo: Okay, so I'm gonna
Martin Price: Voice of my dad or something.
Dominique Pozo: Oh okay i'm gonna i'm going to interview this part a little bit. Okay, so
Dominique Pozo: So I hear that you are the critic in in Martin's head. Is that correct,
Yeah.
Dominique Pozo: We are you willing to tell me a little bit about yourself.
Martin Price: Marty scripts are many times, and he's doing it again and
Martin Price: He's done it again and you know
Martin Price: Leave
Martin Price: Know this woman's fabrications and
Martin Price: You know, what do we call it a
Martin Price: That was like a dumb stunt or something.
Dominique Pozo: Gosh, I, you know, when I hear you. It sounds like you really care about him.
Martin Price: Yeah.
Dominique Pozo: I hear that. Maybe. Maybe. Sometimes. You're harsh and you call them names and I hear that you actually don't want him to repeat a pattern. Is that true
Martin Price: Right.
Martin Price: So you care. Yeah.
Dominique Pozo: Yeah, I think what I'm understanding is that your delivery gets kind of annoying to Marty.
Dominique Pozo: Do you think that this is the only way he'll listen because he's not getting it.
Martin Price: Just ever gets it.
Dominique Pozo: Number.
Martin Price: 60 he would have gotten it.
Dominique Pozo: Well, I'm going to invite you critic to think about something he has got some because never is a huge word. How has he ever had.
Dominique Pozo: A relationship with a woman that you actually
Dominique Pozo: That you think when relatively well
Martin Price: Yeah.
Dominique Pozo: Well, who within
Martin Price: The second life.
Dominique Pozo: What was good about it.
Martin Price: Just really well.
Martin Price: They both love each other and
Martin Price: That was kind of came to an end.
Martin Price: Because of just some unfortunate circumstances.
Dominique Pozo: So if you were to tell Marty, the whole of mighty what what you recognize that he did well in that relationship, what would it be specifically
Martin Price: I mean, he was
Martin Price: Almost over generous to a fault but
Martin Price: He took care of her as best as he could, and her daughter.
Dominique Pozo: So it sounds to me like you recognize that Marty, he knows how to nurture.
Yeah.
Martin Price: Never
Martin Price: stood up for himself. And then in the end when he started to stand up for himself. That was like a sea change in the relationship. It was like setting boundaries. After
Martin Price: You know 17 years of not setting boundaries and always apologizing, and then
Martin Price: She didn't like that.
Dominique Pozo: You know, it's interesting critic, as I hear you and watch you. I keep getting this vision of an eagle, you're almost like you've got these eagle eyes that are watching everything and you're so perceptive, and you're really looking out for Martin, it seems to me.
Martin Price: Yeah, but I could see, I would get annoying.
Martin Price: Right.
Martin Price: Yeah, I don't want him to do this again repeat the same thing.
Dominique Pozo: Mm hmm. He mentioned something
Dominique Pozo: Yeah, yeah, I'm in the beginning of the session Martin mentioned something that it's that your voice is similar to his dad's voice. Do you think that you're, you're kind of like his dad.
Dominique Pozo: Yeah.
Martin Price: Which and there's a good side to that, but there's just like a very
Martin Price: I only really engaged and then
Martin Price: When it was when I'd messed up, and he criticized me, you know, it wasn't a lot of healthy engagement.
Dominique Pozo: So are you talking about Martin's dad now or, uh huh, uh huh. So it sounds like you really took on a lot of that.
Dominique Pozo: Just being the default often
Dominique Pozo: Well, if you had one message for Martin just clear really clear, concise and you know he's with us right now. So he's going to hear it. What would you say just very clearly and concisely.
Martin Price: Yourself and follow your heart.
Martin Price: What
Dominique Pozo: What if that gets him into another pickle with a woman.
Martin Price: Would hope he learned his lesson by now.
Martin Price: That you know
Martin Price: You can't
Martin Price: Either you can't find love or that you can't have expectations.
Martin Price: From helping somebody that they're going to reciprocate in a way that you want them to
Dominique Pozo: So what kind of agreement, could you make with Martin if he follows your advice to just forgive themselves and follow his heart.
Dominique Pozo: Yet your hope is, he doesn't repeat patterns that he's done in the past. What agreement, can you make with him because you're really driving them crazy he's, he hears you he hears you loud and clear. I'm wondering if you can make an agreement with them.
Martin Price: All I would like to know.
Martin Price: If I could just see him be more patient
And
Martin Price: Not try and jump in and be a savior again.
Dominique Pozo: Oh, so you're you're inviting him to be more patient
Martin Price: Or
Martin Price: advising him or telling him.
Dominique Pozo: What would that look like if he'd been impatient now.
Martin Price: Too bad you know I do see him following some same patterns in the current like online Pen, pen pal relationship.
Dominique Pozo: Like what's, what's an example of one pattern.
Martin Price: No kind of complaining about
Martin Price: Not necessarily how miserable. She is but she can't
Martin Price: Sleep like
Martin Price: You know she's up for three or four hours a night can't sleep worried
Martin Price: As problems that their son.
Martin Price: And I can't fix that.
Martin Price: And I shouldn't try you know
Martin Price: Nice things but
Martin Price: Yeah, I just have like this Savior kind of side of me.
Martin Price: Or he has he has this
Martin Price: You know he's always trying to
Martin Price: Keep people from having to feel their pain.
Dominique Pozo: What do you think
Dominique Pozo: He Martin was telling me that between three and five is like the witching hour. It's when it's, it seems to me that your voice is loud as you're like,
Dominique Pozo: Screaming somehow the, the air is clear enough that you can just kind of bombard him. What could you do different maybe for the next week around that time.
Dominique Pozo: Between three and five.
Martin Price: Every
Dominique Pozo: Yeah, I wonder
Dominique Pozo: I wonder what Martin has to say. Shall we switch roles. Now, are you, are you willing to hear, maybe some of what's good, what's come up for him as he
Martin Price: Wasn't sure
OK.
Dominique Pozo: OK.
Dominique Pozo: So just take a few deep breaths. You're out of the full on critical
Dominique Pozo: You're back to my team.
Dominique Pozo: And without processing with me yet. Just go ahead and see if you can turn to the chair and anything you want to say to the critic from what you heard this is your time to speak, you're not going to be interrupted. HE'S NOT GOING TO TALK BACK TO YOU. HE JUST GOING TO LISTEN.
Dominique Pozo: What do you want, is there anything you don't
Martin Price: Like, I know you're right but like
Martin Price: Continually bringing this up right now is just rubbing salt in it.
Martin Price: IT'S NOT HELPING ME FEEL BETTER any better about myself.
Martin Price: It's like the past and I know I have to
Martin Price: do everything I can to save money and, you know, think about me and my retirement.
Martin Price: But I do get lonely and i a
Martin Price: It'd be really nice to have you know someone to be with back can Wisconsin.
Martin Price: And I guess I've
Martin Price: Really been taught a hard lesson and I
Martin Price: Lots of times I want retribution, but there's really nothing I can do.
Martin Price: But
Martin Price: Just constantly
Martin Price: Bashing myself or dashing me
Martin Price: For this predicament is like
Martin Price: Taking away my
Martin Price: Will that move on.
Dominique Pozo: Are you willing to go sit in in the critic chair and respond to that.
Dominique Pozo: Going to respond to mighty from everything you just
Martin Price: You're just going to do it again if you don't
Martin Price: If you think you have to like if you can't let other people just experienced pain and not try and jump in and save them all the time either financially or emotionally or
Martin Price: Whatever.
Martin Price: Just because
Martin Price: You want to be in a relationship so bad.
Dominique Pozo: Critic. I have a question for you. What do you do when you're lonely. It sounds like you really got a grip on how to take care of yourself and do you know you set those boundaries. How do you
Dominique Pozo: Master was Esther.
Martin Price: Purposes wife.
My dad's
Martin Price: Like through thick or thin. She was always, you know, therefore him.
Uh huh.
Dominique Pozo: Do you think that um
Dominique Pozo: How does that work for you, how did you have such a supportive dynamic with us to
Martin Price: The very devoted woman she like step by her she
Martin Price: She loved me and she stood by me.
Martin Price: When things were bad.
Dominique Pozo: I don't know where this came from. And please, I pray that you, this isn't sound insulting to Esther. But I'm wondering what she really obedient to
Dominique Pozo: Kind of compliant or whatever you
Martin Price: Are moments of defiance, but she was really there to hold the family together and then kind of be there for him in the end.
Martin Price: You know, took care of him.
Dominique Pozo: Saying you really didn't have much experience of being alone because you had Esther.
Dominique Pozo: Can you imagine, can you imagine what it's like for Marty when he does have those lonely moments because he doesn't have an ester. He doesn't
Dominique Pozo: Right now.
Dominique Pozo: What do you think that's like, can you imagine what that would be.
Martin Price: Like being in the world without
Martin Price: Having a like intimate companion that you knew was on your side.
Dominique Pozo: So, does it make sense to you why he keeps reaching out and trying and he's doing is making efforts and and he's learning
Martin Price: That's true. I've never had to go through that.
Martin Price: You guys keep trying.
Dominique Pozo: Well, if
Dominique Pozo: If you could say something encouraging to him, what would you want to say.
Dominique Pozo: Because he's been really feeling beat down by you honestly. He seems like he's just, it's kind of on the edge of it's like it's starting to to hit his self esteem. So I think he needs. He needs a some encouragement action.
Martin Price: I've never had to go through what you're going through. And so I realize it's probably pretty hard for you and I wish you the best and hope you find your Esther.
Dominique Pozo: I think this is a good time to switch seats.
Dominique Pozo: What was that like to hear about
Martin Price: It's kind of making sense of it. That was when my second wife was like so upset with
Martin Price: My schizophrenia daughter that
Martin Price: She just created her and was kind of like
Martin Price: I kind of felt like I got left with the choice of like daughter or her right and what she would say was like, I'm not asked her, I'm not asked her, you know, like she was basically saying she wasn't going to hang in there and
Martin Price: So that makes sense to me.
Dominique Pozo: Yeah.
Dominique Pozo: That makes sense to me to you had a father who
Dominique Pozo: Didn't experience what you're experiencing and you really internalized his voice.
Martin Price: Yeah, he like my mom was, I don't know if you caught Victorian or old fashioned, but she just stuck hung in there through thick and thin. I mean, she drew a couple of ultimatums with them, like he had to stop drinking or he had to stop smoking. But he
Martin Price: I don't know. I'm part of it, like, people would say, well,
Martin Price: She didn't love herself, but another part of me says, well, she loved it herself enough to
Martin Price: You know,
Martin Price: Endure, that kind of thing, you know, she had a pretty strong.
Martin Price: Sense of faith, that's for sure.
Martin Price: So it's hard to say, you know, but like
Martin Price: Pam my second wife, she like
Martin Price: She had like a like a real tough upbringing, with an alcoholic father who
Martin Price: Basically
Martin Price: Like lost their house and a lie to go live in Section eight housing and so
Martin Price: She was she'd been through.
Martin Price: I don't know. She just wasn't she certainly wasn't a nester you know she wasn't going to hang around
Martin Price: I guess I should like
Martin Price: And so she she told me she was going to move out and then let me
Martin Price: Until I like developed a more healthy relationship with my daughter, you know,
Martin Price: And
Martin Price: But that was the same thing. Like she like it. The same thing with their first husband. She waited till he was like on vacation or something and just packed up and left. So that's actually given me too. So I guess I shouldn't have assumed I was going to be any different.
Dominique Pozo: Well, let's bring it back to the critic for a moment. So
Dominique Pozo: What can you do differently between three and five just tried an experiment in the next week since that's the tough time. What can you do to have a different experience.
Martin Price: Like I go to the dog park with my friend at 430. I don't know what it is about my daughter says the same thing. She says between, like, three and five and three and six that just like
Martin Price: The tough time of the day. It's like your maybe your mind gets all stressed out or something and
Martin Price: But yeah, I call it the witching hours witching hour
Martin Price: And I go up and down. But yeah, like
Martin Price: I did find this lady in Milwaukee, and we both seem to like each other and we like text each other pictures and I
Martin Price: I just like
Martin Price: Have this reflex in me. Like if
Martin Price: It's not just
Martin Price: Some of them in their relationship with it's like I just had this relationship that if someone's hurting or whatever. I always try and swoop in and help
Martin Price: And I guess it's most often my significant other, but it was also my daughter, you know,
Martin Price: That was what my second wife gets upset about was that I was paying more attention so much attention to my daughter that, you know, I wasn't available in your relationship.
Dominique Pozo: Well, I think being of service is clearly
Dominique Pozo: Not, you know, a natural thing for you.
Dominique Pozo: And maybe starting to redefine what does being of service really mean or look like and you know and as I've heard you also say, oh, here I am swooping in as the rescuer again and it doesn't sound to me that rescue someone is really, you know, has the highest
Dominique Pozo: Is the highest definition of service. So maybe that's something to think about in the next week. What are different ways you can be of service.
Martin Price: Yeah, it's like one guy explained it service versus sacrifice. You know, it's like
Dominique Pozo: Right, not being a martyr.
Martin Price: Right.
Martin Price: You're not God, and people need to experience their pain.
Martin Price: To grow.
Dominique Pozo: Well, I have an idea. You know, when you say witching hour. It's such a great metaphor. You know, when I think of witches. I think of rituals.
Dominique Pozo: And so because it's the. Those are the witching hours, maybe you could create a ritual for yourself like sitting down and making a list of, you know, what are the other ways to be a service or being of service to someone. During that time, somehow, really.
Dominique Pozo: Making a ritual out of
Dominique Pozo: Through that those hours.
Martin Price: Like a gratitude list or calling somebody or
Dominique Pozo: Something. Yeah.
Martin Price: I have been doing
Martin Price: So I'm working at home.
Martin Price: And I've been trying to do the new nickname meetings and those help
Martin Price: You know, I think part of it is just like this whole lockdown thing, you know, we're also isolated.
Dominique Pozo: Yeah, as it
Martin Price: Was a cope with.
Martin Price: You know, social
Worker.
Martin Price: It's like anyway. Well, I apologize for being late. This is, this is pretty helpful to me so. Oh.
Dominique Pozo: Good. Good. I'm glad.
Martin Price: I came. Yeah, it does. It does.
Martin Price: Yeah, my I just get so tired of it. You know, going into that. Do you know
Dominique Pozo: I'm curious what happens in the next few days. Because often, if there's a voice that's just nagging and nagging, it's like it just needs to be heard and I know the more that I push those voices away the louder, they get so
Martin Price: Yeah, lots of times, I'll just rely on my God just have added man. I'm tired of like intervening and praying. It's like nothing I do seems to want to change it.
Dominique Pozo: Yeah, no, I think, giving it space. And let's see, we'll see what happens in the next couple days.
Dominique Pozo: And I'm just pulling up my calendar here. So do you want to do you want to meet on the 27th, which would be two weeks away.
Martin Price: Yeah, I need like a
Martin Price: Reminder system or something like that.
Dominique Pozo: I
Martin Price: Set up like a calendar reminder
Dominique Pozo: Yeah, something
Dominique Pozo: I don't know, maybe you can ask the virtual clinic, if they would be
Martin Price: Good to
Dominique Pozo: 30 minutes before the session or something like that.
Martin Price: I've never gotten good enough with my cell phone to have it.
Martin Price: I think it'll, you know, like on your email.
Martin Price: It'll work, it'll remind you if a meetings coming up in 15 minutes
Martin Price: That's what I need, because I end up in the zoom meetings and then I like lose track of time and
Martin Price: Then I'm late. So sorry.
Dominique Pozo: Okay.
Martin Price: I've never been on zoom so much my whole life.
Dominique Pozo: Oh my gosh, I know it's very exhausting. It can be very exhausting and I'm totally giving you slack because I missed, I missed a meeting at work today completely did not even look on my calendar so
Dominique Pozo: Yeah, we all do it. Okay.
Martin Price: Okay, well, I'm sorry.
Dominique Pozo: That's okay.
Dominique Pozo: So I've got you down for the 27th. And yes, see how you can remind yourself.
Martin Price: Okay. All right. Thank you.
Dominique Pozo: Okay. Bye bye.
See ya.